= Welcome to Fat Free CRM!

Fat Free CRM is a next generation open source CRM platform.

Active development
has started in November 2008; new features, enhancements, and updates appear
on daily basis.

Here's how to get Fat Free CRM up and running on your system.

=== System Requirements

* Ruby v1.8.7 or v1.9.2
* MySQL v4.1.1 or later (v5+ is recommended), SQLite v3.4 or later, or Postgres 8.4.8 or later.
* ImageMagick (optional, only if you would like to use avatars)

(Ruby on Rails v3 and other gem dependencies will be installed automatically by Bundler.)

=== Downloads

* Git source code repository: git://github.com/michaeldv/fat_free_crm.git
* .zip or .tgz archives: http://github.com/michaeldv/fat_free_crm/downloads


=== Upgrading from previous versions of Fat Free CRM

If you are upgrading from version 0.10.1 or below, your database schema
needs to be updated. After you have installed the latest Rails 3 version,
please run the following commands in this order:

   bundle install              # Installs gem dependencies
   rake crm:upgrade:schema     # Updates your old schema to use the new timestamped migrations
   rake db:migrate             # Runs any new database migrations.


== Install on Heroku

You will need the heroku gem on your system.

    gem install heroku

To set up Fat Free CRM on Heroku, run the following commands:

    heroku create {organization-crm} --stack bamboo-mri-1.9.2
    git push heroku master
    heroku config:add HEROKU=true
    heroku rake crm:setup USERNAME=admin PASSWORD=admin EMAIL=admin@example.com


== Install locally or on a server

=== Setting Up The Database Configuration

Fat Free CRM supports PostGreSQL, MySQL and SQLite databases. The source code comes with
sample database configuration files, such as: +config+/+database+.+mysql+.+yml+
for MySQL and +config+/+database+.+sqlite+.+yml+ for SQLite.

Based on your choice of database, create +config+/+database.yml+:

    cp config/database.mysql.yml config/database.yml

* Edit config/database.yml and specify database names and authentication details.

* Then, edit your +Gemfile+ and uncomment only your chosen database.

=== Installing Gem Dependencies

After you have uncommented the right database adapter in your +Gemfile+,
run the following command from the application's root directory:

    bundle install


=== Create The Database

Now you are ready to create the database:

   rake db:create


=== Setting Up The Application

The next step is to load default Fat Free CRM settings, such as menu structures,
default colors, etc. and create the Admin user. This is done by running the
following rake task:

   rake crm:setup

The previous command will prompt you for an admin user, password and email.
If you want to run this task without any user input, you can set the following variables:

   rake crm:setup USERNAME=admin PASSWORD=password EMAIL=admin@example.com


=== Loading Demo Data

You can test drive Fat Free CRM by loading sample records that are generated
on the fly mimic the actual use. IMPORTANT: loading demo will delete all the
existing data.

   rake crm:demo:load

Among other things the demo generator creates 8 sample user records with the
following usernames: +aaron+, +ben+, +cindy+, +dan+, +elizabeth+, +frank+, +george+,
and +heather+. You can log in with any of these names using the name as password.
The demo site at http://demo.fatfreecrm.com provides access as a sample user as well.

You can reset the database and reload demo data at any time by using:

   rake crm:demo:reload


=== Running The App

Now you should be able to launch the Rails server and point your web browser
to http://localhost:3000

   rails server


= Resources

* Home page: http://www.fatfreecrm.com
* Online demo: http://demo.fatfreecrm.com
* Project page: http://github.com/michaeldv/fat_free_crm/tree/master
* Features and bugs: http://fatfreecrm.lighthouseapp.com
* Twitter commit updates: http://twitter.com/fatfreecrm
* Discussion group for users: http://groups.google.com/group/fat-free-crm-users
* Discussion group for developers: http://groups.google.com/group/fat-free-crm-dev
* IRC channel: {#fatfreecrm}[http://webchat.freenode.net/] on irc.freenode.net


= For Developers

Fat Free CRM can be customized by implementing callback hooks and extended by
creating Rails Engines plugins. Check out these sample repositories demonstrating
the concepts:

   http://github.com/michaeldv/crm_sample_plugin/tree/master
   http://github.com/michaeldv/crm_sample_tabs/tree/master
   http://github.com/michaeldv/crm_web_to_lead/tree/master
   http://github.com/michaeldv/crm_tags/tree/master


== License

Copyright (c) 2008-2011 by Michael Dvorkin. All rights reserved.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

See LICENSE file for more details.

